ECGSIM Manual: ECGs
|
Contents
|
ecgsim home  |
ECGSIM Manual
ECGs
Display properties
The ECGs pane displays ECGs. The Display properties dialog window
is activated from the ECGs menu. It allows you to select
which ECGs you want to display: the simulated ECGs (i.e. those that result from
the transmembrane potentials at the heart as set by the user), the reference
(i.e. measured) ECGs, or both. The simulated ECGs are shown in red , the
simulated ones in blue . You may also choose which
ECGs you want to display by pressing the corresponding tool buttons on the ECGs
tool bar.
In the Display properties dialog window you may also
choose whether you want
to display the standard 12-lead ECG, the ECG at the node selected in the thorax pane, or the vectorcardiogram (VCG) according to
the Frank lead system.
Scale
In the scale dialog window, also activated from the ECGs menu,
you may set the vertical scale and select the time span you
wish to display. You may also activate the scale dialog
window by pressing
the scale tool button on the ECGs tool bar.
Filtering
In the filtering dialog window, activated from the ECGs menu
as well, you may choose the type of temporal filtering applied
to the simulated ECGs. This also affects the simulated ECGs in the thorax pane.
If you choose baseline correction (the default value) the potentials
at the beginning of the P wave and at the termination of the T wave
will have zero potential. This is how idealized ECGs are commonly presented.
If you choose AC filtering (the standard type of
filtering in ECG recorders) the
average of the potential over time will be zero for all leads. If you choose
DC filtering the ECGs are in fact unfiltered, i.e. the
true potentials are plotted.
At the body surface, no DC recording of the ECG is possible, due to the
contact potentials between the skin and the electrodes. These contact potentials
slowly vary in time and have magnitudes that are generally much greater
than that of the ECG. The AC-coupling that is always involved in ECG recordings
effectively reduces the effect of these contact potentials. However,
AC-coupling also wipes out any DC component that may be generated by the heart's
electric activity. This component can never by recovered. The baseline
correction that is commonly involved in the analysis of the ECG tries to
overcome this problem, but is only successful if no currents are generated by
the heart in the interval between successive beats.
The DC option in ECGSIM allows one to study
the effect of the AC and baseline coupling
of ECG amplifiers. The DC filtered (unfiltered) ECGs are seen
to differ from the baseline corrected ECGs if
of regions of reduced action potential amplitude (ischemia) are present. Where
in baseline corrected ECGs ischemia leads to ST elevation , the actual (DC)
potentials would lead to the depression of the baseline, and vise versa. If the ST
segment is much shorter than the TP interval, AC filtering results in a TP
interval that is close to zero, and hence ECG recordings may look
more like baseline corrected ECGs than do unfiltered ECGs.
Relation with other panes
If surface potentials are displayed in the heart or thorax panes, a vertical yellow line visible in the
plots indicates the time instant for which the potentials are displayed. If you
click on the left mouse button within the ECGs pane, the potentials for the
corresponding time instant are displayed in the thorax pane. You may also
press the up and down arrow keys to in- and decrease the time by steps of
milliseconds, and the page up and page down keys for in- and decrements with
steps of ten milliseconds.
The temporal filtering of the simulated ECGs in the thorax pane and those in
the ECGs pane are both controlled by the values set in the filtering option of the ECGs menu.
Copying the content of the ECGs pane
The contents of the ECGs pane may be copied to the
clipboard by selecting Copy from the ECGs menu, or by
pressing Ctrl-C while the mouse is within the ECGs pane.
