ECGSIM Manual: Heart
|
Contents
|
ecgsim home  |
ECGSIM Manual
Heart
The heart pane is used to display the geometry of the heart and any of a wide
range of functions on its surface. If a node on the heart is selected by right
a mouse button click, its position is shown by a black patch.
The function that is being displayed in the heart pane, as well as various
display options that can be be selected from the Heart entry on the menu bar:
Surface function ;
Display options ;
Scale ;
Orientation .
Mouse actions in the heart pane are reflected
in this pane and may also have an effect on the other ones.
The image shown in the heart pane may be
copied to the
clipboard by selecting Copy from the Heart menu, or by
pressing Ctrl-C while the mouse is within the heart pane.
Surface function
The item Surface function in the heart menu brings up a
dialog window, with which you may choose the function to be
displayed on the heart surface.
Options available are: the depolarization times, repolarization times, action potential
duration, action potential magnitude, transmembrane potential, epicardial
potential and the
transfer function .
The most frequently used surface functions may also be activated by clicking on
the corresponding button on the tool bar at the top of the heart pane.
If transmembrane or epicardial potentials are displayed, the
status bar indicates the time instant for which the potentials are displayed.
You may press the up and down arrow keys to in- and decrease time by steps
of one millisecond. Use the page up and page down keys for in- and decrements with
steps of ten milliseconds. Also, you may click in the membrane and ECGs pane on the
time instant for which you wish the potentials to be displayed. Finally, you
may use the movie option to view the development
in time of the potentials as a movie.
Display options
The item Display options in the Heart menu brings up a
dialog window in which you may choose how the heart and the surface function are
to be displayed. There are two tabs: the Geometry tab that controls the geometry
options, and the Surface function tab
that controls the surface function options.
Display options: Geometry
To facilitate orientation, the left arteria decendens marking
the boundary between the right and left ventricle may be brought into view.
In addition, the precordial thoracic
electrodes may be included in the display.
In the geometry tab you may select whether you want the electrodes
to be shown, and whether you want them to be
transparent or opaque.
You may choose whether the size of the range around the selected node
that is affected by changes of the source parameters at the selected node
(see range ) should be shown on the heart
surface. You may choose to display the outline of the range, to dim the region
of the heart surface that is within the range, or to dim the region outside the
range. You may also turn the range display on and off by using the range
on/off button on the heart tool bar. The size of the range may be
controlled by using the mouse .
The heart surface may be hidden or made transparent. If a function is mapped on
the heart surface using a color code, the surface will always be opaque, since
a colored transparent heart is too confusing. Should
you want to map a function on the
heart while being able to see through the surface, use isofunction lines only .
The heart vector and vector loop (according to the Frank Leads ) for the simulated data may be
displayed by choosing opaque for the corresponding items. The scale of
the vector is 13 cm/mV times the scale factor of the signals in the ECGs pane . You may
change the size of the displayed vector by
using the scale in the ECGs pane .
Finally, you may select in the geometry tab whether the grid and/or
the nodes that make up the discretized heart should be displayed.
Display options: Surface function
The surface function tab allows you to determine how the function is
displayed; by a color map, isofunction lines, or by both. Also, you may determine
whether the light effect should be active when using a color map display. The
light effect gives a three-dimensional impression of the geometry of the heart,
but it also renders the colors on the surface less bright.
Scale
The item Scale in the heart menu brings up a
dialog window, through which you may set the scale for
the various surface functions that are plotted on the heart surface.
By default, the scale of time functions (repolarization, depolarization and
action potential duration) is adapted automatically as the timing values
change. By unchecking the Autoscale check box, manual control by means
of the three timing sliders is enabled.
Mouse actions in the heart pane
Orientation
You may rotate the heart by (left) mouse dragging. By rotating
the mouse wheel, the heart
rotates along an axis perpendicular to the screen. If you press the shift key
simultaneously, the angle by which the heart rotates with
each click of the mouse wheel becomes smaller.
You may easily return to
the standard frontal view by clicking on the reset orientation button
on the tool bar.
Selection
A node at the heart is selected by a right mouse button click on the
heart surface. The node nearest to the "click" is selected, as shown by a black
patch on the surface. Only one node may be selected at a time; if you select
another node, the previous one is deselected. If you click on the right mouse
button outside the heart, the currently selected node is deselected.
If a function is mapped on the heart surface, the value at the
selected node is displayed on the status bar of the heart pane. If the geometry
is displayed, the location of the selected node and its index are displayed
(the node index corresponds to the row in which the source parameters for that
node are saved ).
In the membrane pane the transmembrane potential of the
selected node is displayed.
Setting the range
The size of the range around the selected node
that is affected by changes of the source parameters at the selected node
(see range ) may be set by clicking the middle
mouse button. The point that was clicked on will define the edge of the
selected range. If your mouse does not have a middle button, or if a special
function has been assigned to the middle mouse button by the mouse driver (as
is often the case in Windows), you may get the same result by clicking with the
right mouse button, while holding down the shift key.
The size of the range may also be set from the range dialog window in the membrane menu. In
this dialog window you may also choose whether the range should be computed
through the myocardium (transmuraly), or merely on the part of the heart
surface that carries the selected node.
