ECGSIM Manual: Introduction
|
Contents
|
ecgsim home  |
ECGSIM Manual
Introduction
ECGSIM is an interactive simulation program that enables its users
to study the
relationship between the electric sources of the ventricular myocardium
and the resulting potentials on the thorax (QRST waveforms as well
as body surface potential maps) and on the heart surface (electrograms,
potential maps, and maps of the local transmembrane potential). Note that both
the depolarization and the repolarization phase are covered, but not the
electric activity of the atria.
One of our objectives for ECGSIM is to serve as a research
tool for those interested in testing
any hypothesis they may have regarding the manifestation of cardiac
malfunctioning in the electrocardiographic waveforms on the thorax.
Another objective is for it to serve as an educational tool,
to be used for students learning the basic aspects of the
genesis of the electrocardiogram.
Please note: ECGSIM is not a diagnostic tool. Any diagnostic
application is only indirect; ECGSIM
provides a forward simulation and does not solve the inverse problem.
ECGSIM simulates electrocardiographic potentials by
specifying the distribution of the timing of depolarization, dep(n), and
repolarization, rep(n), of the transmembrane potentials at nodes n, (n=1...N),
where N is the number of nodes at the surface bounding the ventricles, referred
to henceforth as the heart surface.
For every node the difference apd(n)=rep(n)-dep(n) is taken a measure
of the local action potential duration.
The ventricular surface is the closed surface bounding all ventricular
mass, i.e., endocardium, epicardium and their connection at the base of the
ventricles. The magnitude of the upstroke of the local transmembrane potential,
str(n), representing the local source strength, is allowed to be non-uniform. By
setting pre-computed values for the parameters dep(n) and rep(n) for each node and
using a uniform str(n) values, potentials are simulated that closely
resemble the set of reference values recorded on a healthy subject.
The program allows the interactive changing of the local timing of
depolarization and repolarization as well as the
magnitude of the upstroke of the local transmembrane potentials.
The former two sets of parameters allows one to study the effect of changes
in local timing, the latter set, the manifestation of local ischemic regions.
The strength of the cardiac equivalent generator involved
is the distribution on the heart surface of the local transmembrane potential.
The transfer used to determine the expression of these sources as body
surface potentials was computed by
applying the laws of current flow to an inhomogeneous torso model,
the geometry of which was based on MRI data.
The theory used has been developed over the last 30 years, about 20 years of
which at the Department of Medical
Physics of the University of Nijmegen. The simulation package has had
two predecessors. The current version has been inspired by the enthusiastic
reactions of the users to which these earlier versions were made available.
ECGSIM was introduced to the scientific community though the paper in HEART
included in the reference list:
ECGSIM; an interactive tool for studying the genesis of QRST waveforms .
The theory behind ECGSIM is explained in the papers shown in the
reference list.
Whenever you would want to acknowledge the use of ECGSIM, please refer to the
paper in HEART.
Any comments and suggestions for improvements will be greatly appreciated.
Please e-mail your comments to
.
In response, the package will be developed to (even) greater perfection. Updates will be available from
www.ecgsim.org .
Those of you that have
indicated their wish during the downloading procedure
will be notified about updates.
You can determine which version you are currently working with by
selecting About ecgsim from the Help menu.
