ECGSIM Manual: MCG
|
Contents
|
ecgsim home  |
ECGSIM Manual
MCG
Introduction
In addition to the ECG, ECGSIM can also be used
simulate and display the MagnetoCardioGram (MCG). For this purpose,
ECGSIM must be supplied with a transfer matrix
for the MCG and a description of the grid of the MCG detectors (gradiometers).
You may also supply ECGSIM with a set of measured MCGs and their
desired layout (montage) in the ECGs
pane . This section of the manual describes the format of these files, and
how you can load them into ECGSIM. Examples of these files may be downloaded
from www.ecgsim.org/downloadmcg.html .
Loading MCG files into ECGSIM
In order to load the MCG related files in ECGSIM, you must specify the file
names in the command line by starting ECGSIM in the following way:
ecgsim -mcg TransferFile GridFile MeasurementFile
where TransferFile is the name of the file containing the MCG
transfer matrix, GridFile is the name of the file containing the
description of the observation grid, and MeasurementFile is the file
containing the measured MCG. You may leave out MeasurementFile ; in
that case no measured MCGs will be displayed.
In the unix version you may just type the command line as described above.
In the Windows version you must include the -mcg command line option in
a short-cut by which ECGSIM is started. For that purpose, right-click on the short-cut, and
add the -mcg option and its parameters to the command line (after
ecgsim.exe ). You may want to create a separate short-cut for this
purpose. If you don't give the full path of the files, ECGSIM will look for
them in the " start in " folder defined in the short-cut.
When you start ECGSIM in this fashion, several items will be added to the
dialogs that are evoked from the Thorax menu, allowing you to display
maps of the MCG and the MCG transfer function in the
Thorax pane , and to control their scale.
In order to display the MCGs as a function of time in the ECGs pane , a further option must be added to
the command line:
-mcglayout LayoutFile
where LayoutFile is a layout definition file, in which is defined
which leads are to be displayed in the ECGs pane, and at what position.
If this command line option is added, some items will be added to the dialogs
invoked by the ECGs menu.
File Formats
Transfer matrix
The format of the MCG transfer matrix complies with
the standard format of matrix files used in ECGSIM.
Element T(l,v) of the transfer matrix is the gradiometer field at observation
point l generated by a unit strength source at vertex v of the heart.
Hence, the number of rows must be equal to the number of observation points, and the
number of columns must be equal to the number of vertices on the heart surface.
Observation grid
For display purposes the observation grid description must contain a definition
of triangles interconnecting the observation points.
The format of the observation grid description complies to
the standard format of triangulated geometries
used in ECGSIM. The vertices in this file represent the observation points.
Layout definition
The file format for files defining the layout of signals to be displayed in the
ECGs pane is as follows:
n
l (1)
x (1)
y (1)
w (1)
h (1)
label (1)
l (2)
x (2)
y (2)
w (2)
h (2)
label (2)
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
l (n)
x (n)
y (n)
w (n)
h (n)
label (n)
Where n is the number of signals to be displayed, l(i) is the lead number of
the i-th signal to be displayed, x(i) and y(i) define the position of the
left-bottom corner of the plot of that signal within the ECGs pane, and w(i)
and h(i) define its width and height. The position and size are specified in
floating point numbers between 0 and 1, where 0 represents the left/top edge of
the pane, and 1 the right/bottom edge. Label(i) is the label that will be
displayed at the top of each signal. You may omit the label; in that case the
lead number will be used as a label.
Measured MCGs
The format of the file containing measured MCGs complies with
the standard format of matrix files used in ECGSIM.
Element M(l,t) of the measurement matrix is the gradiometer field at observation
point l at time t.
Hence, the number of rows must be equal to
the number of observation points, and the
number of columns must equal the number of time samples. The sample rate must be
1000 Hz.
