ECGSIM Manual: Membrane
|
Contents
|
ecgsim home  |
ECGSIM Manual
Membrane
The membrane pane displays the transmembrane potential at the selected node of
the heart surface. If desired, the electrogram at that
node may also be displayed.
The sliders allow the
user to change the parameters describing the
transmembrane potential:
the depolarization time (the fast onset of the action potential), the
repolarization time (defined as the moment of maximum down-slope during
repolarization), and the magnitude of the action potential.
The action potential duration that results is taken to be
the difference between the specified repolarization and depolarization times.
The left knob of the slider pair beneath the plot allows the user to specify
the onset (dep) of the action potential at the selected node.
The right knob affects the depolarization time (rep).
When the left slider knob is moved the
right one moves along. In this way the action potential duration (apd)
remains constant. Moving the right knob sets the repolarization timing (rep)
only. This also affects the duration since rep = dep+apd. The numbers shown
indicate (from left to right): dep, apd and rep.
The slider on the right is used to change the action potential magnitude,
expressed as a fraction of its normal value.
If the user changes the source parameters, the
effect on the ECG is immediately visible in the
other panes, provided that the appropriate functions have been selected.
The Membrane menu on the menu bar contains the following entries:
Undo ;
Undo all ;
Show electrogram ;
Focus ;
Range ;
Maximum repolarization time ;
Statistics ;
Repolarization waveform .
The image shown in the membrane pane may be copied to the
clipboard by selecting Copy from the Membrane menu, or by
pressing Ctrl-C while the mouse is within the membrane pane.
Focus
If you choose Focus from the Membrane menu, the currently
selected node on the heart surface will be a focus of depolarization. A
dialog window will appear that allows you to control the
parameters (e.g. propagation velocity) of the depolarization
wave front starting from this focus.
In this dialog window, you may set the depolarization time of the
focus, and the speed of the depolarization wave front started from this focus.
Furthermore you may choose whether the selected node should be the
only focus of depolarization ( Replace current activation sequence ), or
whether the node should be an additional focus ( Add to current activation
sequence ). In the latter case the original depolarization times will be
retained for nodes that are reached by the new depolarization wave front
at a later time than its original depolarization time.
If a focus of depolarization is defined on the heart surface, the
repolarization time rep(n) of each node n is set as follows:
rep(n) = dep(n) + OldDur(n) + 0.4 (OldDep(n)-OldMeanDep) - 0.4 (dep(n)-MeanDep),
where OldDur(n) is the original action potential duration of node n
(i.e: before the focus was defined), OldDep(n) is the original depolarization
time of node n, and MeanDep and OldMeanDep are, respectively, the new and
original mean depolarization times.
This, heuristic, assignment of repolarization times is based on the
following arguments. The original distribution of the action potential duration
is partially an expression of the intrinsic characteristics of the myocardium.
For another part it is the result of
the distribution of the activation times, where regions that depolarize early
tend to repolarize late. Hence the new action potential duration is set the
original one, plus a term that is negative is the new activation time is later
than before, and vise versa. The weight factor 0.4 is based on the
statistical relation between depolarization and repolarization times described
in Genesis of the T-wave as based on an
Equivalent Surface Source Model listed in the references section.
Range
The parameter values of nodes within a certain range around the selected
node are also adapted.
The relative amount by which these node values change changes from one at the
selected node to zero at the edge of the range.
The size of the range is controlled by the range dialog window, which may be activated
from the membrane menu. In this dialog window you may also choose whether you
want to compute the range through the myocardium, or along the myocardial
surface. In this way various myocardial malfunctions may be modeled. For
instance, a bundle branch block would affect both epicardium and endocardium
in roughly the same way. So here one would choose
the range through the myocardium.
On the other hand, hypertrophy, may be modeled by increasing the activation
times at the epicardium only. In such cases one would want to restrict the
range to the epicardial surface.
As an alternative, you may also set the size of the range by clicking with the
middle mouse button (or, if your mouse doesn't have a middle button, clicking
with the right mouse button while holding down the shift key) on the
heart
surface displayed in the heart pane (see Setting the range for details).
Note: if you first change some parameter(s) of the selected node, and
subsequently change the range, the changes will be recomputed for the new
range. If you don't want this (e.g, if you want to make new changes on top of
the old ones for a different range), first select another node and then come
back to this node.
Undo
Recent changes may be undone by selecting Undo from the
Membrane menu, or by clicking on the Undo tool button on the
tool bar at the top of the membrane pane.
By selecting Undo All , or clicking on the Undo All tool
button, all changes made since the start of the program or since the last time
a source parameters file was opened are
undone.
Once you have opened a source parameter file, you may go back to the default
source parameters (i.e. the ones with which the program starts) by selecting
Default from the File menu.
Show electrogram
You may use this option in the membrane menu to show and hide the
electrogram at the selected node on the heart surface.
Maximum repolarization time
By default, the maximum value for the repolarization time of any node is 500
ms. This is adequate for most cases, but in some cases, e.g. the
simulation of the long QT syndrome, later depolarization times are needed.
By selecting Maximum repolarization time from the Membrane
menu, a dialog window is opened that allows the user to choose between the
values 500 ms and 1000 ms for the maximum repolarization time. All sliders
involving depolarization time or action potential duration are adapted to
the selected maximum repolarization time.
When reducing the maximum repolarization time from 1000 ms to 500 ms, there may
be nodes that have a repolarization time beyond the new maximum. If such is the
case, the user is prompted to consider
whether these values should be clipped to 500 ms.
If a source parameter set loaded from file (see
Open: Source parameters ) contains repolarization times beyond 500 ms, the
maximum repolarization time is automatically set to 1000 ms.
Statistics
By selecting the Statistics item from the Membrane menu,
a dialog window is opened that displays information about some basic
statistics of the timing parameters. In addition it allows the user to scale
these statistics. This is effected by merely scaling and/or shifting the
involved source parameters, while keeping the pattern of their distribution in
tact.
The dialog window contains a table that displays the mean, standard deviation,
minimum, and maximum of the depolarization times, repolarization
times, and action potential durations.
The dialog window also contains sliders to scale the means and dispersions
(standard deviations) of these timing parameters. The result of these changes
are immediately visible in the various panes. Note that while this dialog
window is being displayed, all controls outside the dialog window are inactive.
The size of the sliders and slider knobs are automatically adjusted to ensure
that no non-valid values of the timing parameters are generated (i.e.
depolarization before 0 ms, repolarization beyond 500 ms, or action potential
duration less than 50 ms). Also, scaling of the depolarization dispersion will
lead to changes in the action potential duration dispersion and vice versa
(recall: for each node the repolarization time is equal to the depolarization
time plus the action potential duration: rep = dep + apd).
Repolarization waveform
When ECGSIM starts, the overall waveform of the repolarization is computed
by integrating and averaging the T-wave of the reference ECG, as described in
Genesis of the T-wave as based on an
Equivalent Surface Source Model , listed in the references section.
Subsequently, this waveform is adapted to fit the depolarization and
repolarization time of each node at the heart.
By selecting the Repolarization waveform item from the
Membrane menu, the overall waveform is recomputed from the
dominant T wave estimated from the
current reference ECG (see File, Open:
Reference surface potentials ). Furthermore, a dialog window appears
containing a slider by which the steepness of the down slope may be changed,
as percentage of the slope that was computed from the reference ECG.
Time instant selection
If surface potentials are displayed in the heart or thorax panes, a vertical yellow line in the membrane
pane indicates the time instant for which the potentials are displayed. If you
click on the left mouse button within the membrane pane, the potentials for the
corresponding time instant are displayed in the thorax pane. You may also
press the up and down arrow keys to in- and decrease the time by steps of
milliseconds, and the page up and page down keys for in- and decrements with
steps of ten milliseconds.
