ECGSIM Manual: Basic
HOME INTRODUCTION DOWNLOADS MANUAL ABOUT US
Introduction Basic Usage Heart Thorax TMP Leads Tools Focus Preferences Case Files Versions Download case files Update ECGSIM Publications License terms
Basic usage
The interactive operation of ECGSIM is almost entirely mouse
controlled. The main mouse operations are:
dragging, i.e. moving the mouse while holding the mouse button down, and
clicking of either the left- or the right mouse button.
The ECGSIM main window consists of four panes:
the heart pane in the upper left part of the application window,
the thorax pane in the upper right part of the application window,
the TMP pane in the lower left part of the application window and
the leads pane in the lower right part of the application window.
The boundaries between the panes may be shifted by dragging the left mouse button. For each pane
there is a menu item on the menu bar. The options in each menu
control what is displayed in the corresponding pane.
The most frequently used functions are also available from
the tool buttons at the top of the application. To view the function
of each button, rest the mouse cursor on the button without
pressing any of the mouse buttons. A short text explaining the
function of the button will appear.
The heart and the thorax may be rotated by right mouse button
dragging. The default, AP view (natural frontal view),
is restored by a double click of the left or right mouse button.
By clicking with the left mouse button on the heart surface
in the heart pane the nearest node on the heart surface is
selected. The TMP pane shows the
transmembrane potential at this node. By means of the handlers
( or
,
see het TMP main menu) the parameters of the TMP: depolarization, duration, resting potential,
source amplitude and slopes at that node and the region around it can be changed.
The resulting changes are visible in the heart pane
if the corresponding surface function is selected.
The effect of these changes on the body surface potentials may be viewed in the
leads pane and the thorax pane . Again, for the
thorax pane the corresponding surface function must be selected.
The status bar at the bottom of ECGSIM shows general information from the application.
HOME     CONTACT US     TOP OF THIS PAGE
