ECGSIM Manual: Alternative Geometry
HOME INTRODUCTION DOWNLOADS MANUAL ABOUT US
Introduction Basic Usage Heart Thorax TMP Leads Tools Focus Preferences Case Files Versions Download case files Update ECGSIM Publications License terms
Preferences
Color scale
Grid
Thorax / heart settings
TMP handlers
This dialog can be opened by pressing the -preferences- item. For Windows this item is
located in the -Options- main menu item. While this dialog is being shown the rest of
the application cannot be accessed.
Color scale
Color coding scales are used to visualize surface functions in the heart
view and thorax view. The used color scale can be adjusted for
three types of functions:
timing, used when visualizing depolarization , repolarization and
ARI on the heart ,
potential, used when visualizing heart contribution and potential field
on the heart and all surface functions in the
thorax and the
TMP, used when visualizing amplitude , resting potential and TMP
on the heart .
Grid
The graphics in the leads and TMP view can be shown with, by selecting this option, or
without, by deselect the option, a grid.
The grid is only being shown if the size of the view is not too small. If the leads and
TMP view are sized too small the grid is automatically disabled to reappear again when the
view is made bigger again.
Thorax / heart settings
1)
Thorax isofunction lines. If checked, only iso function lines are used to draw the
potential maps and sensitivity map ,
otherwise a complete colormap is used (see thorax pane ).
When only the iso function lines are being used to draw, the lungs and the heart are still
visible in the semi transparent thorax geometry.
2)
Arc ball rotation.
We are still working on this feature. It will become available as soon as possible!
TMP handlers
For the TMP view two specific options are available:
1)
Combine the resting potential and amplitude handler, i.e. lifting the
resting potenial will reduce the upstroke amplitude. If not checked both the
amplitude handler and the resting potential handler are visible.
2)
When shifting the depolarization time the repolarization time shifts with
it or not (keep constant APD)
HOME     CONTACT US     TOP OF THIS PAGE
