ECGSIM Manual: Transfer function
HOME INTRODUCTION DOWNLOADS MANUAL ABOUT US
Introduction Basic Usage Heart Thorax TMP Leads Tools Focus Preferences Case Files Versions Download case files Update ECGSIM Publications License terms
Transfer function
The source model implied in ECGSIM is the Equivalent Double Layer (EDL) type of
surface source model (see references section). Accordingly, the
potential V(y, t) at position y on the body surface at time t is given by
V(y,t) = int A(x,y) S(x,t)
where 'int' denotes the integral over the surface of the ventricular (or atrial)
myocardium, S(x,t) the
transmembrane potential at position x at the surface of the ventricular
myocardium at time t, and A(x,y) the transfer function .
The transfer function quantifies the (passive) electric volume conductor properties of
the thorax. Its values follows from the laws of electric current flow. The transfer
function used in ECGSIM has been computed for a heart-thorax model, including
the inhomogeneities caused by the higher conductivity of blood in the cavities
and the lower conductivity of the lungs. The relevant geometry is derived from
the MRI data of the subject whose reference ECG is involved.
The transfer function A(x,y) can be displayed on both the
heart ( x ) and the thorax ( y ), in ÂµV/cmÂ²:
If you want to display the transfer function on the heart surface (atrial or ventricular), you
first have to select a node on the thorax. The function displayed (a row of
the transfer matrix) is the transfer from all points on the heart surface to
the selected node on the thorax. This function can be interpreted as the
amount by which the (local) source elements of the heart surface contribute to the
ECG at the node selected on the thorax.
If you want to display the transfer function on the thorax, you first have
to select a node on the heart surface. The function displayed (a column of the
transfer matrix) is the transfer to all points on the thorax from the node
selected on the heart surface. It can be interpreted as the amount by which
the (single) EDL source element at the selected node on the heart surface
contributes to the potential on the body surface.
HOME     CONTACT US     TOP OF THIS PAGE
